# COVID19 Patient Management System
Purpose: to record patients’ information and their status automatically instead of drawing a table and typing the information manually using Microsoft Word. The program has the function of registering new patients’ information, recording test results and action taken, modifying patients’ status, showing statistical information and searching patients’ data.

The program is expected to accept the input of users according each condition and record the information in each text file. It will be only available for patients who belong to one group(ATO, ACC, AEO, SID, AHS) and one zone(A, B, C, D). Group, zone and action taken for COVID-19 positive patients will be recorded using  the following abbreviation.

| Group/Zone/Action Taken                                                                 | Abbreviation |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |:------------:|
| Asymptomatic individuals with history of travelling overseas                            |      ATO     | 
| Asymptomatic individuals who has close contact with positive patients                   |      ACC     | 
| Asymptomatic individuals who had attended event associated with known COVID-19 outbreak |      AEO     | 
| Symptomatic individuals                                                                 |      SID     | 
| Asymptomatic hospital staff                                                             |      AHS     | 
| East                                                                                    |       A      | 
| West                                                                                    |       B      | 
| North                                                                                   |       C      | 
| South                                                                                   |       D      | 
| Continue Working (Follow-Up Test Required)                                              |     CWFR     | 
| Home Quarantine (Follow-Up Test Required)                                               |     HQFR     | 
| Quarantine in Designated Centres (Follow-Up Test Required)                              |     QDFR     | 
| Home Quarantine (No Follow-Up Test Required)                                            |     HQNF     | 
| Quarantine in Hospital Normal Ward or ICU (No Follow-Up Test Required)                  |     QHNF     | 
| Allow to reunion with family                                                            |      RU      | 
| Continue Working                                                                        |      CW      | 

 Main Menu
 
	When users run the program, the first output is the main menu of the program. There are five selections provided for users to choose either one according to their requirements. Each selection has its specific function. Besides integers from 1 to 6, users are not allowed to enter other numbers or alphabets. 

  
	It will show “Non-numeric value entered” when the entered input is not a number. Besides, it will show “Invalid input” when the entered number is not between 1 to 6.

 
If users enter 6, the program will end automatically.

4.2 Patient Registration
 
If user entered 1 for selection, the program provides users to enter the information of new patient. The above picture shows the process of patient registration. The entered information will save in “Patient_Detail.txt” file as the figure shown below. In patient registration, the age and contact number must be a number, the group must be one of the groups provided (ATO, ACC, AEO, SID, AHS) and the zone must be one of the zones provided (A, B ,C, D). The patients’ ID will be automatically generated by the program. Furthermore, name, group and zone of patients will be recorded in upper case .
 

 
Patients who have completed registration before are not allowed to register again.
 
4.3 Test Result and Action Taken
 
	Selection 2 is a function of recording patients’ test result and action taken. It provides users to choose either one of the tests. It is important that patients must go through the test1 or they can not run the following tests. Same as the main menu, users are not allowed to enter alphabet and numbers besides from 1 to 4.
 
The diagram above shows the process of entering test result of a patient. Beside from test result, all the information will be recorded in upper case. In this function, group and zone must be in the range of provided groups and zones, test result must be either negative or positive. Patients have to choose either normal ward or ICU according to each patient’s situation.
  
	There are two situation for patients who are not available to run the test:
1.	Patients who didn’t complete registration cannot run test1. If patients didn’t complete test1 and their previous test result is positive, they cannot run the following test.
2.	Patients who already done the particular test, they are not required to run the test again. For example, patients who have done test1 are not allowed to go through test1 again.

 
In each test, if the patients’ test result is positive, their information will automatically record in each test positive text file. If the patients’ test result is negative, their information will automatically record in each test negative text file.

 
4.4 Modifying patients’ status
 
In the previous program, when the patients’ test result is positive, the program will automatically generate information in “Patient_Status.txt” file for recording the active COVID-19 patients’ information and their status.

 
The third selection in menu provides the function of modifying the patients’ status. The diagram shown above is the process of modifying patients’ status. It is crucial that the entered patient’s case ID must be existing in “Patient_Status.txt” file and the patient’s status must be “ACTIVE”. Recovered and deceased patients’ status cannot be changed.

 
After changing the patients’ status, the information in “Patient_Status.txt” file will be changed simultaneously.
 
4.5 Statistical Information
 
	The 4th selection in menu allows users to check the total number of selected group of patients. Users are able to check the statistical information of total number of tests carried out, tested patients, recovered cases and positive patients for COVID-19 in each groups or zones.
  
   
Five diagrams shown above shows that the statistical information of the designed program.
 
4.6 Searching Functionalities
 
The last function of this program provides the users to search the patients or cases they wanted. 

   
	The first selection in searching functionalities allows users to search patients according to their names or patients’ ID. The second selection provides users to search the positive for COVID-19 case according to the case ID. The last functionality will print out the information of all the deceased patients. 
